hey guys welcome to my channel today
we're gonna talk about American visas
I know it's a tricky question for a lot
of nationalities but if you're watching
this video you've probably already made
up your mind about studying in the US or
maybe you already have an i-20 which is
like an invitation letter from an
American University so there is no way
back all you have to do is just to
prepare your story or prepare your
documents and go there and get that visa
and I'm gonna give you tips and tricks
they're gonna help you on your journey
so if you're interested continue
watching
again congratulations if you've already
got into an American University if you
have please comment down below which
university you got into we're gonna
congratulate it all together today I'm
going to share tips that are based on my
experience because when I was back home
I was dealing a lot with the u.s. visas
and they're also based on the stories of
our students who got accepted to
American universities and came here but
first things first we need to go ahead
and check the visa stats for your
country so what we're gonna do we're
gonna go to travel.state.gov and look at
the refusal rates there are no refusal
rates for f1 specifically but there are
a few some rates for non-immigrant visas
and basically the assessment criteria is
pretty much the same so when you're
interviewing for a non-immigrant visa
the offices task is to suspect that
you're an immigrant your task is to
prove that you're a genuine student or a
genuine tourist whatever when we're
talking about non-immigrant visas
they're mostly tourists and student
visas so let's look at the refusal rate
there's this file with the chested
refusal rates by nationality and let's
look at 2018 okay here are the countries
let's look at some nationalities that
are pretty common in this channel for
example Brazil your refusal rate for
your country is 12 point 73% what this
means that out of a hundred people who
apply only 12 get rejected this is like
good average I've worked with a lot of
countries with 12% rizal rate and if
you're a good student like if everything
is fine with your documents you're gonna
get your visa India 26% this is fine
again if you follow all the tips that
I'm gonna give you today I don't think
you would have a lot of problems but if
you're from I don't know Iran for
example its 87 percent refusal rate
that's a lot like the chances of getting
a visa are really really really really
low or for example Ukraine 40% refusal
rate which is also like on a higher end
if your country
has 20 to 30% refusal rate you should
probably be fine if your University's a
good university and you have all of the
documents in place and stuff but if it's
like 60 70 percent refusal rate it's
gonna be harder but again just watch my
video carefully there are some things
that I'm gonna talk about our first
thing is your University ranking and yes
it affects your chances I would say if
you got accepted to Stanford or Harvard
or MIT or other top universities your
chances of getting a visa are like 99
percent because yes you are a generous
student you cannot just get into
Stanford just you know to come to this
country you have to be a really good
student you have to prove the admissions
committee that you're really willing to
study here so that shouldn't be a
problem but we had a student who got
accepted to Stanford master's degree she
went to her interview and they asked her
where's the money coming from for your
education and she wasn't ready for that
question she wasn't preparing for the
interview at all and she couldn't answer
it she was like oh my parents and my
grandparents and she couldn't really
give them a good answer and they thought
she didn't have money and they refused
her visa and she came to us and we
helped her reapply and everything was
fine but you know things like that
happen this is why you need to really
prepare for your interview let's go back
to the University ranking there are some
universities or colleges especially
community colleges that are really low
ranking they have really high acceptance
rate like in any practice them like if
you pay you get accepted and they have
really low tuition fees like three four
thousand dollars a year and low quality
of education so what happens in the
interview you come to the interview you
talk to an officer and he asks okay you
go to this Community College which is
like really low ranking why don't you
get education in your own country
because you have so many good
universities why would you travel to the
US why would you fly for like 10 12 + or
80 hours depending where you are
together education like what is the
reason behind it
and if you cannot give them a legit
reason they're gonna suspect that the
reason is you want to emigrate or work
illegally or whatever so if you
university is lower-ranking please come
up with a good answer
I got accepted to both like top-ranking
and a little like average universities
in my case my reply was no no preparing
for the interview I basically wanted to
say what I've already taught in my
personal statement I wanted to study
economics and my country where I'm from
we've only been in the market economy
situation for less than 30 years which
means this is not the best ways to study
market economy but the u.s. is the u.s.
is where everything has been more in the
world of business as the world of
marketing and even like an average
university in the u.s. in terms of
practicality is a lot better than a
university in my country so that was my
story so something that will prove why
you need to travel so far away from your
own country to get education so this is
number one number two your i-20 I xx is
your official letter of acceptance from
your university you need to get the hard
copy of it so the university we need to
FedEx it to you or DHL whatever and
you're gonna take it to the interview
with you before the university issues
the I xx they would need to see your
bank statement what it means so for
example you got accepted to a program
that costs twenty thousand dollars a
year and they would want to see your
financials for the first year of your
education so the tuition fees are twenty
thousand dollars a year ten thousand
dollars a year is an average like cost
of living in the u.s. like Florida's
eleven thousand dollars say you're in
Florida and let's say you didn't get any
financial aid so the total you need a
show on your i-20 is thirty one thousand
dollars if you got some financially like
twenty thousand dollars so you would
need to show eleven thousand only but if
you didn't get thirty one thousand
dollars and before they would send you
the original I 20 they would need to see
a bank statement where you have thirty
one thousand dollars and you send a copy
to your university they send you an
20 and you take a bank statement you
take it I 20 and you go to the Embassy
for your interview so getting your i-20
the hard copy is the crucial step of any
application process get it as soon as
possible so you can start working on
your application as soon as possible
next thing remember I told you that you
need to make sure you know where the
money is coming from work on that story
so there is a 99% chance your interview
is gonna be conducted in English and the
officer who to make sure that you
actually speak English that you will be
able to comprehend in English that
you're gonna be able to study in English
so really prepare for that interview and
work on a story where you're gonna tell
why you going to the US and where the
money is coming from because if you
won't be able to explain it then you
might have the same problems as our
Stanford student that I've talked about
early in this video so basically talk
about maybe your parents who lending you
money or maybe you've saved money while
working so please please please this is
really important the next tricky thing
is your background what I've seen a lot
is if people have military connections
or connections with governments they
might have some additional problems and
the additional problems might be either
visa refusal or administrative
processing and administrative processing
is so basically when you come to an
interview you get an answer straight
away normally they would either tell you
your visa is approved give us your
passport and we're gonna return it with
a visa sticker or are they gonna tell
you your visas refused goodbye you can
reapply but sometimes that do an extra
background check on you and it's gonna
be administrative processing they
normally say it's gonna last two to four
weeks but I've also seen like two months
I've seen a year so you can last a while
and my advice to you if you have any
connections with like military
government etc please apply as early as
you can normally you get your i-20 in
April or May apply right away because if
you get administrative processing in
June good chances you're going
your visa before September and you're
gonna be able to travel so this is a
thing to remember your story the next
thing I mentioned already your story
they also going to ask about your
background and what they're looking for
is they're looking for it consistency
and they are looking for your story to
be genuine what is an in genuine story
hi my name is Anna
I've been studying IT for 30 years and
I've been working in IT and now I
decided to study painting this is my
first trip abroad then master's in this
university that nobody knows like why oh
I won't you start painting in your own
country first
why so drastically change your
profession like there are some things
that they're looking for that look
suspicious so basically the best option
is when you graduated from your
bachelor's maybe work somewhere and then
you're doing masters that is really
close to whatever you've done before if
you're changing completely if you
haven't studied for more than ten years
if the university is low ranking like
all of those things end up and you need
to work on your story like why you're
doing that and it totally understand
that sometimes you're doing like
economics and then you decide to study
biology but tell them the story tell
them what made you study biology when we
talk about personal statements I told
you that you need to write real stories
that converted you like hey I don't know
I got this disease and I started digging
into biology and I realized I could do
this this and that
and I've done some practice before I've
done some conferences I've done some
biology classes but now I want to do
this professionally and yes I've done 10
years of economics but now I know how I
can apply my management knowledge in
building a biotech company but I need
basic bio education for that like this
is a consistent story this makes me
believe that you really need that
education and especially if you're
getting into a good university I would
totally understand why you're doing that
so this is very important again work on
your story train it with a camera
training with a friend
there's
a real interview this is talking to a
real estate of speaker especially if you
don't have that experience like please
please practice beforehand the next
thing your future plans I know a story
of a Harvard MBA student who was
interviewed for his student visa and
when he was asked what are your plans
after graduation he said I don't know
maybe I'm gonna stay in the u.s. maybe
I'm gonna come back to my own country
and the officer became really suspicious
he's like I'm gonna immigrate what are
your plans like again his task is to
suspect that you're an immigrant your
task is to prove that you're a genuine
student your task is to prove that your
number-one goal of going to the US is to
get top-notch education and then come
back to your country so yes lens can
change you're writing something your
personal statement above becoming a
manager in an international corporation
but then a month into your studies you
realize you want to be an entrepreneur
nobody's gonna punish you for that same
with a student visa like yes maybe now
you have plans of coming back then when
you graduate maybe you have plans of
going to the UK to work like it's ok but
please be careful with whatever you want
to do like if you push too much into
like immigration stuff that could be
problematic and the last but not the
least is your past travel history for
student visas it's not that important
but if you're taking a short course or
if you're taking English classes again
that could be a problem if this is your
first trip abroad and it's a 20-hour
flight or a 12-hour flight that could
raise questions like why wouldn't you go
to the UK first why wouldn't you study
in your own country why don't you travel
the world first like why the u.s. if
you're still at a stage when you're so
planning maybe I would go maybe I
wouldn't I would HIGHLY advise you to
travel go to the UK take a language
course on linguae trip comm go to Malta
go to Europe go to like whatever but
travel
have this consistent travel history
because I don't know I don't know a lot
of people who would be like especially
like later in their lives like 30-plus
never travelled to broader than they
realize they want to study in the u.s. I
don't know how that happens like in my
case I became passionate about studying
in the u.s. after I visited the u.s. I
was like oh my god I love this country I
love this culture I want to study here
so please please PLEASE travel before
you apply before you go to your student
visa interview because it just looks
better and it gives you a better
perspective on the world so traveling is
everything
let me summarize everything that I
mentioned and let me just name top
mistakes that students make during their
interview first not knowing where the
money is coming from not telling the
right story second week English like
come on and you're going to study in the
u.s. you need a proof it your English is
good it's a practice practice practice
the next thing mumbling sometimes they
ask you questions that you're not
prepared for and you would be like oh
this is not bad but again if you
practice before I hand you're gonna
minimize the risk of mumbling and you
know not having the answer no prior
trouble history might be a problem so
travel as much as you can be careful
about talking about your plans and also
be careful not to lie like don't lie
during the interview this is the rule
that you have to follow because may see
when you lie and once the officer is
suspicious that you're lying you're
gonna get refused the last but not the
least just the way you communicate
keep an eye contact me open don't try to
joke because well especially in a
foreign language it doesn't go well too
often so just be open tell your story
prove that you're a genuine student and
fingers crossed for you let me know guys
so this was useful if you have any
questions please comment down below with
your questions thank you so much
watching this video up to the very end
again my main goal is for you to achieve
your dreams and achieve your goals and I
hope this way with this videos I'm able
to help you thank you so much for not
yet subscribed
channel this red button hit subscribe
and I will see you in the next videos I